[HUDI-5886][DOCS] Improve File Sizing, Timeline, and Flink docs (#8093)
apache/hudi: website/docs/flink_configuration.md

| Property Name | Default  | Description | Scope | Since Version                          |
|----------------|--------|----------|---------------|--------------------------------------|
| `taskmanager.numberOfTaskSlots` | 1 | The is the number of parallel operators or user function instances that a single TaskManager can run. We recommend setting this value > 4, and the actual value needs to be set according to the amount of data | n/a | 0.9.0 |
| `parallelism.default` | 1 | The is the default parallelism used when no parallelism is specified anywhere (default: 1). For example, if the value of [`write.bucket_assign.tasks`](#parallelism-1) is not set, this value will be used | n/a | 0.9.0.|

### Memory​
The `JobManager` and `TaskManager` memory configuration is very important for a Flink job to work smoothly. Below, we'll describe these configurations. 

#### JobManager

> The JobManager handles all the instants coordination. It keeps an in-memory fs view for all the file handles on the filesystem within its embedded timeline server. We need to ensure enough memory is allocated to avoid OOM errors. The configs below allow you to allocate the necessary memory. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JobManager handles all the instants coordination. It keeps an in-memory fs view for all the file handles on storage within an embedded timeline server. We need to ensure enough memory is allocated to avoid OOM errors. The configs below allow you to allocate the necessary memory. 
```

Reviewer: "instants coordination" is a bit unclear

| Property Name | Default  | Description | Scope | Since Version                          |
|----------------|--------|----------|---------------|--------------------------------------|
| `jobmanager.memory.process.size` | -- |This is the total process memory size for the JobManager. This includes all the memory that a JobManager JVM process consumes: Total Flink Memory, JVM Metaspace, and JVM Overhead | n/a | 0.9.0

#### TaskManager

> The TaskManager is a container for the writing and table service tasks. For regular Parquet file flushing, we need to allocate enough memory to read and write files. At the same time, there must be enough resources for  MOR table compaction because it’s memory intensive: we need to read and merge all the log files into an output Parquet file. Below are the configs you can set for the TaskManager to allocate enough memory for these services. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The TaskManager is a container for the writing and table service tasks. For regular Parquet file flushing, we need to allocate enough memory to read and write files. At the same time, there must be enough resources for  MOR table compaction because it’s memory intensive: we need to read and merge all the log files into an output base file. Below are the configs you can set for the TaskManager to allocate enough memory for these services. 
```

Reviewer: lets move away from parquet to base

Author: updated

Author: updated

| Property Name | Default  | Description | Scope | Since Version                          |
|----------------|--------|----------|---------------|--------------------------------------|
| `taskmanager.memory.task.heap.size` | -- | This is the task heap memory size for TaskExecutors. This is the size of JVM heap memory reserved for write cache. | n/a | 0.9.0 |
| `taskmanager.memory.managed.size` | -- | This is the managed memory size for TaskExecutors. This is the size of off-heap memory managed by the memory manager, reserved for sorting and RocksDB state backend. If you choose RocksDB as the state backend, you need to set this memory | n/a | 0.9.0 |

> #### Checkpoint​

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Checkpoint​ing
```

Author: updated

> Checkpoint is a disaster recovery mechanism for Flink. When a job fails, users can choose to recover the job from the latest checkpoint to keep the latest data correctness. To keep the transaction integrity, we flush the memory buffer into a Hudi table for persistence during the checkpointing lifecycle. It’s important to note the Hudi transaction cannot be committed without enabling the checkpoint config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Checkpointing is a disaster recovery mechanism for Flink. When a job fails, users can choose to recover the job from the latest checkpoint to keep the latest data correct. To keep the transaction integrity, we flush the memory buffer into a Hudi table for persistence during the checkpointing lifecycle. It’s important to note the Hudi transaction cannot be committed without enabling the checkpoint configuration for Flink.
```

Author: updated

> Please read the Flink docs for [checkpoints](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/ops/state/checkpoints/) for more details. 

Reviewer: link to latest stable

toc: true
---

[Apache Flink](https://flink.apache.org/what-is-flink/flink-architecture/) is a powerful streaming-batch integrated engine that provides a stream processing framework. Flink can process events at an incredible speed with low latency. Along with Hudi, users can use streaming ingestion like with Kafka; streaming consumption like with Kafka; and also perform batch workloads like bulk ingest, snapshot queries and incremental queries. 

> 

Reviewer 2: > users can use streaming ingestion like with Kafka; streaming consumption like with Kafka

A littile verbose here, maybe we can just merge the ingestion and consumption thing like in one sentence.

Reviewer 3: +1

Author: Along with Hudi, you can use streaming ingestion and consumption with sources like Kafka; and also perform batch workloads like bulk ingest, snapshot queries and incremental queries.

Author: cc @danny0405  more simplified- wdyt

There are three executions modes a user can configure for Flink:

> - Streaming 

Reviewer 3: This seems redundant as we describe this in the below para. May be we can just "There are three executions modes a user can configure for Flink. Within each execution mode, ....
" and skip listing them here ?

Reviewer 2: +1

Author: There are three execution modes a user can configure for Flink, and within each execution mode, users can use Flink SQL writing to configure their job options. The following section describes the necessary configs for different job conditions.

- Batch
- Automatic
 
Within each execution mode, users can use Flink SQL writing to configure their job options. The following section describes the necessary configs for different job conditions.   

## Configure Flink Execution Modes
You can configure the execution mode via the `execution.runtime-mode` setting. There are three possible modes:

- **STREAMING**: The classic DataStream execution mode (default)
- **BATCH**: Batch-style execution on the DataStream API
- **AUTOMATIC**: Let the system decide based on the boundedness of the sources

You can configured the execution mode via the command line:

```sh
$ bin/flink run -Dexecution.runtime-mode=BATCH <jarFile>

```

Separately, you can programmatically create and configure the `StreamExecutionEnvironment`, a Flink programming API. This execution environment is how all data pipelines are created and maintained.

> Below, you can configure the execution mode via the command line. The execution mode is used to configure a streaming, batch and automatic runtime mode. By default, the `streaming` execution mode is enabled. 

Reviewer 3: Rephrase to -> "Below is an example of how to set the `BATCH` mode programmatically."

Author: You can configure the execution mode programmatically. Below is an example of how to set the `BATCH` mode. By default, the `streaming` execution mode is enabled. 

cc @bhasudha wdyt?

```sh
StreamExecutionEnvironment env = StreamExecutionEnvironment.getExecutionEnvironment();
env.setRuntimeMode(RuntimeExecutionMode.BATCH);
```
See the [Flink docs](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-master/docs/dev/datastream/execution_mode/) for more details.

## Global Configurations​

The global configurations are used to tune Flink for throughput, memory management and/or checkpoints (disaster recovery i.e., data loss). Two of the most important global configurations for a Flink job are parallelism and memory. For a long-running job, the initial resource configuration is crucial because open-source Flink does not support auto-pilot yet, where you can automatically scale up or down resources when there’s high or low data ingestion. So, you might waste or underutilize resources. 

All Hudi-specific parallelism and memory configurations depend on your Flink job resources.

When using Flink, you can set some global configurations in `$FLINK_HOME/conf/flink-conf.yaml`.

### Parallelism​

> If your system has a lot of data ingestion, increasing the parallelism can improve throughput significantly. Hudi supplies flexible config options for specific operators, but at a high level, a default global parallelism can reduce the complexity of manual configuration. Try the default configuration and adjust as necessary. 

Reviewer 3: "has a lot of data to ingest" ?

Author: updated

| Property Name | Default  | Description | Scope | Since Version                          |
|----------------|--------|----------|---------------|--------------------------------------|
| taskmanager.numberOfTaskSlots | 1 | The is the number of parallel operators or user function instances that a single TaskManager can run. We recommend setting this value > 4, and the actual value needs to be set according to the amount of data | n/a | 0.9.0 |
| parallelism.default | 1 | The is the default parallelism used when no parallelism is specified anywhere (default: 1). For example, if the value of [`write.bucket_assign.tasks`](#parallelism-1) is not set, this value will be used | n/a | 0.9.0.|

### Memory​
The memory configuration of `JobManager` and `TaskManager` is very important for a Flink job to work smoothly. Below, we'll describe these configurations. 

#### JobManager
The JobManager handles all the instants coordination. It keeps an in-memory fs view for all the file handles on the filesystem within its embedded timeline server. We need to ensure enough memory is allocated to avoid OOM errors. The configs below allow you to allocate the necessary memory. 

> 

Reviewer 2: Should we move the JM memory option here, the `jobmanager.memory.process.size`

Reviewer 3: I think so too

Author: done:

#### JobManager
The JobManager handles all the instants coordination. It keeps an in-memory fs view for all the file handles on the filesystem within its embedded timeline server. We need to ensure enough memory is allocated to avoid OOM errors. The configs below allow you to allocate the necessary memory. 

| Property Name | Default  | Description | Scope | Since Version                          |
|----------------|--------|----------|---------------|--------------------------------------|
| jobmanager.memory.process.size | -- |This is the total process memory size for the JobManager. This includes all the memory that a JobManager JVM process consumes: Total Flink Memory, JVM Metaspace, and JVM Overhead. | n/a | 0.9.0

| Property Name | Default  | Description | Scope | Since Version                          |
|----------------|--------|----------|---------------|--------------------------------------|
| jobmanager.memory.process.size | -- |This is the total process memory size for the JobManager. This includes all the memory that a JobManager JVM process consumes, consisting of Total Flink Memory, JVM Metaspace, and JVM Overhead. | n/a | 0.9.0
| taskmanager.memory.task.heap.size | -- | This is the task heap memory size for TaskExecutors. This is the size of JVM heap memory reserved for write cache. | n/a | 0.9.0 |
| taskmanager.memory.managed.size | -- | This is the managed memory size for TaskExecutors. This is the size of off-heap memory managed by the memory manager, reserved for sorting and RocksDB state backend. If you choose RocksDB as the state backend, you need to set this memory | n/a | 0.9.0 |

#### Checkpoint​

> Checkpoint is a disaster recovery mechanism for Flink. When a job fails, users can choose to recover the job from the latest checkpoint to keep the latest data correctness. To keep the transaction integrity, we flush the memory buffer into a Hudi table for persistence during the checkpointing lifecycle. It’s important to note the Hudi transaction cannot commit the transaction without enabling the checkpoint config.

Reviewer 3: Hudi transaction cannot be committed without enabling the checkpoint config.

Reviewer 2: +1

Author: fixed- thanks!

| state.backend | -- | This is the state backend to be used to store state. We recommend setting the store state as `rocksdb` : `state.backend: rocksdb`  | n/a | 0.9.0 |
| state.backend.rocksdb.localdir | -- | This is the local directory (on the TaskManager) where RocksDB stores its files. | n/a | 0.9.0 |
| state.checkpoints.dir | -- | This is the default directory used for storing the data files and meta data of checkpoints in a Flink supported filesystem. The storage path must be accessible from all participating processes/nodes(i.e., all **TaskManagers** and **JobManagers**), like the HDFS and OSS path. | n/a | 0.9.0 |
| state.backend.incremental |  --  | This is the option whether the state backend should create incremental checkpoints. For an incremental checkpoint, only a diff from the previous checkpoint is stored, rather than the complete checkpoint state. If the store state setting is `rocksdb`, we recommend to set this config. | n/a | 0.9.0 |

### Per Job Options​
​

> You can manually configure each job with respect to your workload. For example, if your workloads change, you can manually configure more memory or parallelism. You configure each Flink job with the SQL syntax through the WITH clause. Please take a look at the example below on how to start configuring your Flink job.

Reviewer 2: `You configure` -> `You can configure` ?

Author: is there another option in how they can configure it?
